---
title: Actions!
---

## Review time!

By this point in the modules, you should have have an in-progress exhibit that incorporates your materials, stories, metadata, accessibility, pages, exhibits, collections, and more. Now is a great time to revisit your brainstorming document and storyboard to see how much progress you've made and to identify any gaps or needs that you identified in your plan or storyboard that have not been addressed by your exhibit.

As a refresher, here are the questions from the brainstorm:

- What materials will you feature?
- What story are you trying to tell with your materials?
  - What is the overall purpose of your digital exhibit?
  - What is your point of view?
  - How does your material connect to the purpose of your exhibit?
- Who is your audience?
- What is the key question that will keep your visitor’s attention and your audience engaged? Keep in mind that this question should be explored through navigation and may likely be answered by the end of the “visit” to your exhibit.
- How are you pacing navigation of your exhibit? Do visitors move from text to text or are materials organized in a way that provides a variety of representation within the exhibit?
- By the end of your exhibit, what should the audience be able to articulate, what should they feel, how do you want them to react?

<br>

## Is your content accessible?

Consider taking the [No Mouse Challenge](https://nomouse.org/) and navigating through your exhibit site. What do you notice? What might you improve from a user perspective? Does anything remain unclear?

<br>

## Updates

So, what updates are still needed? Consider updating your planning template and storyboard with all of the great changes you've made. This is a great way to document your project as you continue making edits and updates to your exhibit.
