---
title: Overview
---


## Overview

**A definition of post-production**

> For this course, in order to think about the stages of producing an exhibit with Omeka, we’d like to borrow the concepts of Pre-Production, Production, and Post-Production from the world of filmmaking. This is how those terms are broken down at the [Brooklyn College Department of Film](http://www.brooklyn.cuny.edu/web/aca_visualmedia_film/2012_Production_Handbook_.pdf). Another definition is provided by the [Georgetown University Library](https://guides.library.georgetown.edu/documentary).

<br>
In film, the Post-production stage is the last phase of production where you edit, compress, and share all of your work. You might do some editing work in Final Cut Pro or Adobe Premiere, or you might publish to a streaming service or to an authored Blu-ray disc. Revisiting our *Nomadland* example, post-production is the stage where Chloé Zhao and others will make their editorial decisions about what footage gets included, what music is paired with visuals and how raw film is color corrected.

For this course, we’re thinking that the Post-production phase is the time where you put the finishing touches on your exhibit. Once your material is uploaded, your metadata is sorted out, and you’ve thought about how to provide access to your items in an accessible way, it’s time to think again about your narratives, how your exhibits are customized with different layouts, how the language you use matters, and revisit some exhibits to see how they have published their own narratives and stories.

In this module, we explore narratives, exhibit architecture and writing for the web. At the end of this module, you will revisit your brainstorm and storyboard to see if anything is missing from your current exhibit.
