---
title: Items
---

## Items

Items are the most basic unit of any digital exhibit platform. An item can be any digital object or file: a photograph, a work of art, a person, an idea. When you create an item in your SPLOT or Omeka site, you will need to describe the item and you can upload files to represent it, too. Items are the foundation on which you will build your digital exhibit.

When you adding an item, you will have an opportunity to set an “item type” as part of its creation. Item types are just the kind of thing the item is - a photograph, a work of art, an idea, etc. Many digital exhibit platforms, including Omeka, provide you with a built-in list of item types or you can create your own.

Descriptions for an item, along with an item type, are just two parts of what makes up that item's metadata. The list below contains some of the metadata that you can add to an item in Omeka:

- Title: A name given to the item
- Subject: The topic of the item
- Description: An account of the item
Source: A related resource from which the describe item is derived
- Creator: The party responsible for making the item
- Publisher: The party responsible for making the item available
- Contributor: A party responsible for making contributions to the item
- Rights: Information about the rights held in and over the items
- Format: The file format, physical medium or dimensions of the item

Additionally, you can also add tags to easily identify the item. Tags are keywords or phrases that describe a piece of data. Tags can be added to both items and exhibits, showing that you can begin to connect resources to each other through a variety of means (but we will get to exhibits later). Adding tags to your items and exhibits will enable the audience to "Browse by tag" and are often discoverability in a list or word cloud, depending on the site theme you choose.

## Collections

Think of collections like a bucket of content. Each bucket can contain any number of individual items, as much as you care to cram in there. And you can label or assign each bucket for a specific use. Perhaps you have one bucket for *soccer* and another for *volleyball*. It makes sense, then, to place corresponding items into appropriate buckets based on these commonalities. But once you place an item into a bucket, it belongs only to that bucket. That's how collections work in digital exhibit platforms.

Each item on your site can only belong to one collection, but items can be switched from one collection to another at any time. Each collection can be based on a common topic, source or organizing principle. And collections can certainly be public-facing, but they could also be used internally for organization purposes only. No matter how you plan to use a collection, know that you can customize your organization for a variety of contexts that make the most sense for your archive.

To add items to a collection in Omeka, you first need to create a collection. And like items, collections have some basic metadata options to provide when you first create a new one. Once a collection is created, you can add an item by going to the item in your archive and selecting the collection from the drop-down menu.

## Simple Pages

As you begin building your projects, you will want to consider incorporating Simple Pages. Simple pages - or just pages - are the connective tissue of your Omeka site. They become part of your site's navigation and are used to describe your project in much more detail.

Whereas exhibits bring items together across collections, a page provides viewers insight into why and how you, as a digital curator, have brought items together. Pages can help audiences understand the goals of your project, how materials were gathered and collected, and provide justification on why items are - or aren't - included in a collection.

### Examples of Pages
- An "About" page for your site
- An essay about the materials on your site
- Your philosophy, ethos or manifesto to give insight to your design decisions
- Your methodology for item selection
- Narrative contextual information about your items

### Nesting Pages
"Nesting" a page is the process of displaying content inside other pages. Nesting provides organization for your site architecture and allows you to intuitively group content for navigational purposes. A nested page acts as a hierarchy of pages using the site navigation terminology of "Parent" and "child" to denote order of appearance and location within the exhibit's site architecture.

- An exhibit page
-- A page that describes an exhibit from 1900 - 1950
--- A page about an item in the exhibit
--- A second page about another item in the exhibit
--- A third page about yet another item in the exhibit
-- A page that describes an exhibit from 1950 - 2000
--- A page about an item in the exhibit
--- A second page about another item in the exhibit
--- A third page about yet another item in the exhibit
-- A page that describes an exhibit from 2000 - now
--- A page about an item in the exhibit
--- A second page about another item in the exhibit
--- A third page about yet another item in the exhibit
